mkv2mp4 README.

Info:

  mkv2mp4 is a commandline utility, written in Python, which allows conversion
  of video files in the Matroska container (*.mkv file extension) containing
  H.264 video to be converted into a format which the Xbox 360 can play.
  
  It differs from other similar tools in that no video transcoding is
  performed; the video is passed through untouched and the just the audio is
  transcoded if necessary.  This means that the conversion is much faster
  (the whole process being quicker than realtime on reasonably modern
  machines), and more importantly that there is no degradation in video quality
  (which makes it very suitable for HD video).
  
  Due to the fact no video transcoding is performed, this tool is somewhat
  restrictive in the input formats it supports.  Supported formats are:
  - Container: Matroska.
  - Video codec: H.264
  - Audio codec: the app supports all audio codecs, however:
    - ffmpeg's multichannel support currently isn't great, and therefore only
      a subset of codecs with more than two channels will work.  5.1 AC3 and
      5.1 DTS are known to work, 5.1 FLAC is known not to, others are untested.
    - All stereo codecs which ffmpeg can decode should work.

Supported OSes:

  This app is intended to be portable, and all its dependencies are available
  on Linux / OS X / Windows.  However it has only been tested on Linux, and as
  such there may well be portability bugs on other platforms.
  
  Please feel free to report any such problems.

Mandatory dependencies:

  Python (tested on v2.5.x).

  mkvinfo & mkvextract, both from mkvtoolnix (tested using v2.0.2).
  http://www.bunkus.org/videotools/mkvtoolnix/

  ffmpeg (tested on SVN-r13049).  This must be a version of ffmpeg compiled
  with support for non-free formats (in particular ac3, DTS decoding, and  AAC
  encoding).
  http://ffmpeg.mplayerhq.hu/

  MP4Box, from GPAC (tested on version 0.4.4 - earlier versions have a known
  bug when working with large files).
  http://gpac.sourceforge.net/

Optional dependencies:

  neroAacEnc can optionally be used instead of libfaac for audio encoding
  (tested using package built Aug 6 2007).  Note that ffmpeg is still required
  for audio decoding.
  This is (at the time of writing) available free of charge.
  http://www.nero.com/ena/nero-aac-codec.html

Installation / Usage:

  To install, copy mkv2mp4.py to a convenient location (eg. somewhere in your
  path).

  Typical usage is:
  
  "mkv2mp4 -i <input_file.mkv> -o <output_file.mp4>"

  Additional options are available - type "mkv2mp4 --help" for details.

Technical details:

  This application makes the following alterations to the file:
  - Extract tracks from mkv input (uses mkvinfo & mkvextract)
  - Edit H.264 video stream to have level 4.1 or less (this is just a change
    to the file header - no transcoding).  This is because the Xbox 360 doesn't
    play files with a higher level.
  - Transcode audio to stereo AAC (unfortunately the Xbox 360 doesn't support
    any 5.1 audio codecs in mp4) (using ffmpeg for decoding and encoding (with
    libfaac), or ffmpeg for decoding and neroAacEnc for encoding.
  - Drop any tracks other than the first video and audio tracks (the Xbox 360
    doesn't support multiple video or audio tracks, and doesn't support
    subtitles in mp4).
  - Remux into an mp4 container.  Files are split such that they are smaller
    than 4GB (again... a restriction for the Xbox 360).

License:

  This program is released under the GPLv3.  See the COPYING file for details.

  For license details of the programs listed in the dependencies sections, see
  their respective websites.

